The Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Sequencing Consortium is a global collaboration dedicated to aggregating, generating, and analyzing high-throughput sequencing data of inflammatory bowel disease patients to improve our understanding of disease architecture and advance gene discovery. The consortium was formed in 2014 with a commitment to data sharing, diversity, and inclusivity - we hope that the findings from this study and others like it will provide a foundation for further investigation of disease mechanisms and therapeutic discovery. This browser is part of that overall effort to display and share these results with the wider scientific community. Partnering with the Broad Institute, the IBD Sequencing Consortium has sequenced more than 50,000 patients as of 2024 from 50 research cohorts across the world.

The IBD phase 1 dataset (hg38) analyzes exomes from 28,718 Crohn’s disease cases, 17,991 Ulcerative Colitis cases, 3,417 Inflammatory Bowel disease cases, and over 97,000 control samples.

In earlier versions of these analyses ([e.g., 2022 paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36038634/)), the vast majority of samples were of European and Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. At present, our sequencing efforts are particularly focused on increasing diversity study and focus on adding substantial numbers of individuals - particularly of African-American, Latin American, and Asian ancestry. Because sequence data was generated with various exome capture technologies over a span of ten years, we adapted and developed methods to reduce possible confounders and incorporated this information during the quality control and analysis steps. The first results have provided genome-wide significant results associating ultra-rare protein-coding variants in individual genes to risk of Crohn’s disease. Later releases are planned with a larger number of samples that will further increase power and will be released here before any publication.

We thank the tens of thousands of patients and families who generously contributed to our effort. This project is made possible by the generosity of many funders, including the Helmsley Charitable Foundation and the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), and the leadership of its members. We are incredibly grateful to all the [IIBDGC consortium members](https://www.ibdgenetics.org/) for their gracious contribution to make this collaboration possible. We welcome any feedback! You can contact us by [email](mailto:TODO:@gmail.com) if you have any questions or suggestions.

All gene-level and variant-level results are available for download, [here](/downloads).

Individual-level data is available for approved researchers via the dbgap accession [phs001642.v2.v1](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/gap/cgi-bin/study.cgi?study_id=phs001642.v2.p1): Center for Common Disease Genomics [CCDG] - Autoimmune: Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Exomes and Genomes.

Analysis data last updated February 2024.
